h2. To install on Ubuntu 10.04:

<pre><code>cd /usr/share/munin/plugins
git clone git://github.com/bummercloud/PHP5-FPM-Munin-Plugins.git
chmod +x PHP5-FPM-Munin-Plugins/phpfpm_*
ln -s /usr/share/munin/plugins/PHP5-FPM-Munin-Plugins/phpfpm_average /etc/munin/plugins/phpfpm_average
ln -s /usr/share/munin/plugins/PHP5-FPM-Munin-Plugins/phpfpm_connections /etc/munin/plugins/phpfpm_connections
ln -s /usr/share/munin/plugins/PHP5-FPM-Munin-Plugins/phpfpm_memory /etc/munin/plugins/phpfpm_memory
ln -s /usr/share/munin/plugins/PHP5-FPM-Munin-Plugins/phpfpm_status /etc/munin/plugins/phpfpm_status
ln -s /usr/share/munin/plugins/PHP5-FPM-Munin-Plugins/phpfpm_processes /etc/munin/plugins/phpfpm_processes
service munin-node restart</code></pre>

For the phpfpm_status and phpfpm_connections plugins, you'll need to enable the status feature included in newer versions (5.3.2+) of PHP-FPM. Open up the php5-fpm.conf, /etc/php5/fpm, and uncomment line 186 for the pm.status_path directive:

<pre><code>pm.status_path = /status</code></pre>

Jérôme Loyet from the Nginx forums provided some useful insight on how to get this working with Nginx. You'll essentially set 
up the status location directive like this:

<pre><code>location ~ ^/(status|ping)$ {
    include fastcgi_params;
    fastcgi_pass backend;
    fastcgi_param SCRIPT_FILENAME $fastcgi_script_name;
    allow 127.0.0.1:9000;
    allow stats_collector.localdomain;
    allow watchdog.localdomain;
    deny all;
}</code></pre>

You'll need to make sure that from within your box, you can curl /status with # curl http://localhost/status. You should get a response similar to this:

accepted conn:    40163
pool:             www
process manager:  dynamic
idle processes:   6
active processes: 0
total processes:  6

h4. Note: 

The phpfpm_status plugin is particularly useful if you're using dynamic process management. You can choose static or dynamic in the php5-fpm.conf.

h3. Environment variables

* env.url: Set a custom url, defaults to _http://127.0.0.1/status_
* env.ports: Set a custom port, defaults to _80_
* env.phpbin: Set a custom php binary name, defaults to _php5-fpm_

h4. Requirements:

libwww-perl
